This is Jocko podcast number 365 with echo Charles and me jockel willing. Good evening echo. Good evening
Also joining us tonight Dave Burke. Good evening Dave. Good evening
All of you here this evening are leaders. I am pleased to meet you
What you do may well dignify the past
explain today and
Secure for all of us
tomorrow
That's a little excerpt from a speech that was given and
Was captured and transcript from general of the army by the way
General the army Omar Bradley
Who Dave and I well, I mean the Bradley fighting vehicle?
We we are very fond of the Bradley fighting vehicle. So Omar Bradley
We're gonna dig in this document, but a little bit about him
born in a
Little farming town in Clark, Missouri
February 12th 1893
Wicked poor parents very poor, but he got into West Point
Went into West Point graduated in 1915
Number 44 out of 164. It's only 164 people going to go into West Point in a class
You know now it's like but I think it's about a thousand a class now
So he graduated with that class of 1915 in which by the way, this is interesting this class the Eisenhower was in that class
But 56 people in that class became generals
One class of 164 people
Became generals so they call that class the class that the stars fell on World War one
He was in an infantry regiment, but he never left America. So didn't do anything
So that's rough
That was that's that's hard happen to some guys in the teams. They missed Vietnam and
They were in the teams and there's nothing going on and then they got out of the teams September 11th happens. It's like a
a bad deal a bad deal
So he's in World War one happens. He just never leaves America in between
the wars he's
Going to you know various assignments spends a bunch of time as a student or a teacher at military schools makes Brigadier General in
1942 to 1943 commands the 82nd and 28th Infantry Divisions March 1943
March 1943
He is requested by Eisenhower to go to North Africa and this is when he becomes the deputy commander
Under patent which gets represented in the movie patent
To core
After that he's selected as the army group commander for D-Day for operation overlord D-Day and in D-Day
He's on the ground
Leading the fight through the the hedgerows of Normandy and then after the battle of St. Low
August 1st. He takes command of the 12th Army Group and to the war. He's now a full general and
By the way, check this out full general. He's in charge of overall in charge of 43 divisions
1.3 million
I think that's the largest army that has ever been assembled in America
1945 comes back after war. He becomes the administrator for the for the Bureau of Veteran Affairs
Gets on with that job 1948 back to the army
1949 first chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
So that's kind of a landmark role
First chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 1950 of course Korea War starts in June in September
He gets promoted to general of the army five-star. He's the fifth five-star general and the last five-star general we've had in America
Army grows from 1950 to 1952 the whole army grows from 1.5 1.4 million troops to
3.5 million troops
Didn't really have a great relationship with MacArthur and I should say MacArthur didn't have a great relationship with him
kind of convinces Truman to get rid of to fire General MacArthur and
I I tried to figure out exactly what this meant. I read several different sources about this
So he he stopped active service in
1953 but he stayed on active duty. I guess it's because you're a five-star general you're like permanent like you're not going anywhere
so
He's still active duty
Even though he's not maybe in the exact position, but he's still on active duty
And then he just like chairs a bunch of you know chairs the the Commission on Veterans Pensions
Member of the President's Intelligence Advisory Board
His chairman of the board of below the watch. How do you say below the watch company below the below the below the say yeah
Or but I've heard below but the boat. Okay. I don't know how to say it
American company. Did you know that? No, I always thought it was a foreign company. No, it was American company
Not made in America anymore. Unfortunately
Um wrote a book called soldier story, which I'm sure we'll cover on here at some point
He was a consultant in the movie
Patent for the movie patent because of course Pat had died in what 1947
Was even quicker. It's like 45 is like right after the war like the war was just barely over
So Pat wasn't alive and and so he's a consultant on the movie patent and of course in the movie
It shows them as kind of like
Friends, you know close friends little different personalities
But in reality they didn't get along apparently very well. He died April 8th
1981 so that means he was on active duty
From August 1st 1911 when he when he went to the when he went to West Point until April 8th 1981
He was on active duty for 69 years eight months and seven days
Obviously a ton of experience and like I said, I'm sure at some point we'll cover that whole book on the podcast
But I was reading this transcript the other day because he had visited the Carlisle barracks
which is where the army war colleges and
He had stopped by to talk to some students about leadership
And he had some great insights there that I thought it'd be worth sitting down and covering
So let's get into it
Omar Bradley five-star general stopping by to talk to your class about leadership. What do you got?
So he starts off like I said, I use already already all of you here this evening our leaders
I'm pleased to meet you what you do may well dignify the past explain today and secure for all of us tomorrow
So that's how we that's how we kind of kicks this thing off
Then he says perhaps I can touch upon a few factors that will underscore the value of good leadership
Leadership is intangible no weapon no impersonal piece of machinery ever designed can take its place
Now he didn't have AI yet
Right
No, he did not he did not have AI. No AI is getting close man
Have you seen the chat GBT? You know I'm talking about no, what is that?
It's like this AI that's writing things for people. Oh, yeah, do you see the AI art?
Yep, yeah, I try and now everyone's like doing their thing whatever
But doesn't AI kind of defeat the whole purpose of art though
Yeah, kind of and the other thing of that I've noticed about AI art people that have posted AI art of themselves
Is it's basically the most completely like fantasized vision of yourself you could ever have?
Like hey, it's it's me Jocko except for I
You know just like a
270 pound shredded six foot five dude with like
That's pretty much what it is. Yes, sir. Yeah, that's probably written into the AI like they probably like plump your lips
Oh to get you to get you to like the picture and post it and spread it got it from red
And that's how it what do you call one that AI takes over like info. That's how it like
Disseminates right that's how it like freaking propagates itself. Yeah, so he's saying there's no machine that can take its place
But I'll tell you what you can definitely make some incredible
Calculations using artificial intelligence. I think you're always gonna have a little sanity check on things
but
according to Omar Bradley in
1971 which is when he made the speech they're never gonna be able to replace leadership
He goes on to say this is the age of the computer you wasn't kidding
And if you know how to program the machine you can get quick and accurate answers
But how can you include leadership and morale which is affected by leadership into your programming?
You actually can do some of that right?
Some of it. Yeah, you have to be able to right? Yeah, fully
Let us never forget the great importance of this element leadership and while we use computers for certain answers
Let us not try to fight a whole war or even a single battle without giving proper consideration to the element of leadership
I'm gonna concur with that
Another element to be considered is the man to be led and with whose morale we are concerned I
Am constantly reminded of this point by a cartoon which hangs over my desk at home
Which depicts an infantryman with his rifle across his knees as he sits behind a parapet
Above him is the list of the newest weapons science has devised and the soldier behind the parapet is saying
But still they haven't found the substitute for me
Now I'm gonna tell you they're getting closer. I
Mean you Dave Burke you're all but replaced
You've been beating the the the
Aviation AI drum for a while. This is not like this. This is not like a new thing
I you've been thinking about we've been talked we talked about this
We have and I am of I still think of the minority mindset that we're one airplane away from
No longer having man fighters. Wait, there's who thinks that we're do people think we're more than that. Yes, I think so
Oh really? I think I
Don't have any data to back this up other than just conversations. I think most people in aviation think we have more
Man fighters to build. I think we have one more. I think it's not would not surprise me if we built one more
One more past the F-35. Yes
One more you think you're gonna need another manned aircraft past the F-35. No, I don't oh you don't I do not
I'm telling you I would not be surprised if the next one that they're designing now is the last man fighter
Okay, it would not it would not surprise me at all
I think a lot of people would say no way
The other the other interesting thing is there's a dynamic where you there's no reason to even have a
Big aircraft like that, right? I mean you could just make smaller multiple smaller aircraft
Yeah, there's a whole lot of things happening right now like I forgot what the terms
But basically they're even looking at F-35 certainly the next iteration of fighters is I think they call it like the swarm
Which is all these you know smaller?
Drones or you know remote pilots that this lead pilot, you know when an actual aircraft might have a bunch of control over
But the swarm is always unmanned aviation, you know centric vehicles working with that person
the progress that they made with drones in like a few years was insane
Yeah
We had one we had these drones in task unit bruiser
I think they were called Ravens and they were sort of like a big
Model airplane, you know little radio controlled airplane and
Like single prop and you had to throw them into the air and then you had to be a legit pilot to be able to fly them
You'd be flying them around in circles around the target the pilots all sucked so they're like crashing them
What was one of laze one of laze AOI's no one of laze AOI sees
He begged me we had something he goes hey, can I use our our UAV for this? Can I launch the UAV and I was like all right?
So we were on
NAB Coronado, I think and he throws this thing to launch it and it no kidding goes like 80 yards and
plows into a building just head-on right
Totally good, and then the second time he's used it
We're out at our our urban training and he like launched it and again imagine a little tiny
Model airplane. It's got a crappy camera like this is before you know
This is like worse than a blackberry camera in 2005 right?
This is just junk. It's not like now where you and I like we're all sitting at this table
We all have like how many megapixels are on our iPhone?
Did blackberry have a camera yeah, it did yeah, cuz I have like a
Folder that says blackberry pictures. So yeah, it exists, right?
And they are low quality so anyways you got this knucklehead you got this crappy camera
You got this knucklehead seal like that's
Like no pilot by any stretch
He probably went to a three-week school or something and he's flying around a target and
Try and the camera is not like we take for granted now you can just lock a camera in position
It's it's got a little geo stabilizer and all that stuff. This didn't have any day. It's like
Absolutely awful. It was literally worthless. So he's he's tell me like you know hey boss
I got this thing. I will go with the UAV. We'll get a look at the target. All right, bro
So he launches it you can't see anything. We're waiting to launch. I go. Hey man. Just bring it back here
We got to go he brings it back and he tries to land and it crashes right over our home V's square into a tree, bro
Just totally destroyed so
They've made massive progress. I think I don't I mean I think your your crew is definitely out of a job in
Next fighter for sure
Who's thinking you still need to be in there? I think a lot of people
What what is it what if you were to argue their side? What would you say?
I think the argument of their side is like all the nuance that goes in with real-time decision-making and
The flexibility that goes along with that requires a human being to understand sort of the nature of the the the three-dimensional
Unpredictability in the fog of wars you need a human being to be able to make decisions as opposed to a computer
I'm not an expert on AI, but it is startling
It and it's not just what it can do. I think your point is a more important point is
How how steep that curve is and if you think about like if you think about 30 years and how much happens in 30 years?
That's why I'm looking at it like alright
We're gonna start designing this thing now like we'll build we'll buy it and we'll build it and like we'll fly it and then
Like 30 or 40 years from now. We're gonna do it again
and I'm like 40 years from now like
If I think about how old I'm gonna be and how much is gonna happen in that 40 years or 30 40 years
I think it's really hard to not at least envision
It's it's gonna be dramatic how much different the world is and just the concept of even what AI means
It's not like it's going through something where it can like cook food for you or draw a piece of art
It's like doing level eye level thing that is well beyond anything you can comprehend and just visualizing
It'd be like saying the to the right brothers. So like hey
What you just flew an airplane? That's amazing in 40 years. We're gonna walk on the moon. Maybe like that doesn't compute
They can't make the connection of like 40 years later. It'll be like the 50s and we're gonna start putting people in outer space
So I think if you think about that like what's gonna happen in 30 40 years
I think that curve is so freaking steep that it's hard not to visualize
It's gonna be something way beyond all we can imagine and the idea of like me Dave Burke you needing me to do that is
It's a little arrogant. I guess basically you think of it like hey, man, you know
I I love to consider myself a smart guy, but give give the computers 35 years from now
I think I think a lot is gonna change. There's a lot of things changing right now
Yeah, there's a lot of things change right now the you know the battlefield in Ukraine right now
The tanks are getting taken out at like a couple miles away
With no, you know by a ground by a man-packed
Munition that's a game changer that like all of a sudden in one
Short period of time tanks are a little bit obsolete if you look at it from that perspective
So things are changing. All right back to leadership here
Of course with this particular group of service personnel
I I am considering leadership as it applies to a military unit
However, having been associated with industry for some time now
I find it difficult to completely separate the principles of military and industrial leadership
They have much in common so he agrees with us
leadership is leadership in
Selecting a company in which to invest our savings
We often give primary consideration to the company with good leadership in a similar manner a military unit is often judged by its leadership
Good leadership is essential to organized action where any group is involved the one who commands be he a military
officer or captain of industry
Must project power and energizing power which coordinates
Coordinates and marshals the best efforts of his followers by supplying that certain something for which they look to him be a guidance
support encouragement example or even new ideas and imagination
So I
Mean this is um
This is what why the leadership is the most important thing on the battlefield, right? But it's so it's so interesting that this guy
He's talking about these these like sucky this guy that spent his whole life in leadership
Can't really put his finger on what he's talking about
You know what I mean? He's like could be could be guidance could be support could be encouragement could be example could be new ideas
That's a lots of wide range of stuff
The test of a leader lies in the reaction and response of his followers now that's a good that's a good statement
If your people aren't doing what you need him to do you're you're doing something wrong
He should not have to impose authority
Bossiness in itself never made a leader
So there you go
Which is also again for those of people that are up there with a stereotype that you're not doing anything wrong
Which is also again for those of people that are up there with a stereotype of the military leader
Here's this guy saying you should have to put impose your authority
And you know we were at Gettysburg
And I started talking about authority and like authority
What the things people call on for authority rank?
time in experience
Knowledge technical knowledge like all those things people can call on that and use it as authority
Like I've been doing this. Hey, I've been podcasting for three years, man
You don't know what you're talking like that kind of thing. That's just a that's just an argument of authority
So it goes beyond just rank
Continue on he must make his influence felt by example and the instilling of confidence in his followers the greatness of a leader is
measured by the achievements of the lead
This is the ultimate test of his effectiveness
Chuck I'm on board of that
Yeah, and and listen, I'll make this comment now so I'm gonna have to come back to it like that comments
I would say a timeless comment
Your achievement as a leader is based on what your people accomplish
If you've listened to what I said five minutes ago and like oh, I'm just gonna outsource my leadership to a computer down the road
That's not a good plan the attributes that the the behaviors of good leadership
Regardless of what computers might be able to do in the future
The most important thing you could ever possibly do is make you and the people around you better leaders
So don't get all wrapped up on this AI is gonna solve your problems
I don't know when it will if it ever will but between now and then learning how to be a good leader is a really good use of your time
Well, it's the most important thing
Nothing nothing that you can do as an individual human can ever compete with what you can do with a team
That's it. Yeah
Too frequently we use the words leader and commander
synonymously
We should not forget that there are far more staff officer assignments than there are command billets and a good staff officer
Can and should display the same leadership as a commander while it takes a good staff officer to initiate an effective plan
It requires a leader to ensure that the plan is properly executed
That is why you and I have been taught that the work of collecting information
Studying it drawing a plan making a decision is 10% of the job and seeing that the plan seeing the plan through is the other
90% a well-trained officer is one who could serve effectively either as a staff officer or as a commander
You know, this is the the conversation that you and I have we've had it at the muster a few times because
When and I wrote about it in extreme ownership
with Seth stone and
writing on his
Writing on his Humvee window
Relax, here's what you do when you start getting shot at bro one relax to look around three make a call
And then you and I had a conversation about about it
And you were lining it up with the oodaloop and the last thing in the in the oodaloop is
Act after you decide you act and they didn't quite line up because I didn't
Say execute or act when I put that thing on Seth stones board on his window
And the reason I didn't have to say that is because his platoon was like ready to do whatever the hell he said to do
Right, they weren't having a problem with execution. He was just having a problem with decide
You were only solving the parts that he wasn't doing so you need to add a component that was already happening with that guy
Yeah, and that's what this is
It's getting people to actually do things. That's what he's saying is 90% of the job
sitting there and coming up with a plan is
Okay, I mean it's you know, there's there's some small challenges to come up with a plan, but not really I mean
If you have time to plan then you have time to assess different angles and look at things and come up and try different little courses of
Actions and run through some war games some some possibilities and then you got a plan you're good
But getting people to actually execute that thing that's what's a challenge. That's where things fall apart by the way
That's where dreams die
I'm gonna tell you that right now
dreams die in
Execution they don't the dream comes out man. The dream flourishes in someone's mind, right?
People go people live out the entire fantasy. They've the entire dream
People live out like echo comes out up with an idea for a movie, right?
He lives out the whole fantasy the Oscar awards like the whole thing the limo's like the red carpet
He's got that whole thing
But guess what he fails on execution, right? Like it's like oh, but now I got to work
But now I got to take and I got to do this thing
So dreams die in that in that space
Between decide and act that's where dreams die between idea and execution. That's where dreams die and that's why a
Leader's a leader's job is to make that execution happen and here's the thing
There's another thing said Cess don't we got interviewed about the battle of Ramadi and and
Seth told the interviewer that I had to like beat
I had to beat my head against the wall for every operation that we were able to do which was an exaggeration
But the fact the matter is and I would tell that story to the young officers like if you think you're gonna do a mission without
Like making that mission happen. You're not going to be able to you know, it's almost it's very rare that you're gonna be able to
That that an operation you come up with a plan and it and like okay
I said it in motion and now it's just gonna happen. No, you have to like fight every step of the way and that's the way it is in business
That's the way it is in life
Yeah, I I'm picturing trying to convince other people that that you need to be on board with when you've come up with a plan
Knowing that they're gonna have to be on board with that plan and when when he says you're gonna beat your head against the wall
I think like you said your point is just the amount of sheer work that it takes
You don't just like hey you guys and they're like cool and it just happens
It's all the other people and all the things they have to do and where leadership comes in on that just to convince people
And I hate to say it there are times that are people out there that just want to say no
they just want to say no to your plan and
You especially if there's rank involved you can't just tell those people what did you get a lead your way around those things and there's so much
harder than sometimes people give credit for and
How often I'll see people run into a barrier and then stop and and give up that until I literally wrote down dreams that execution
I mean, it's kind of funny when you say it
But that's the hardest part not the I could sit at my desk and I would do this all the time in Ramadi had these ideas like hey
We're gonna do this. We're gonna go here. We're gonna make all these things happen
And then reality is in there and the hardest part about there that is the people you have to get on board to making this stuff happen
Not your people going ready to go execute
But all the things that get in the way of to the point where you can go execute that plan
Yeah, you ever heard the term idea guy and I he's not you guys, you know, which is a bummer
It's it's what and this is this is a huge dichotomy is that
For me like okay, let's say I'm right a book. Let's say I'm right way of the warrior kid
The idea is the is by far the hardest part of that. It is so hard to come up with an idea like that's viable and good
It well I can't even say it's hard work. It's almost like it's almost like life
It's almost like a life
It's almost like life like you can't you can't create life like hey a
Scientist knows the various ingredients that are in a cell
But they can't make it they can't mix them together make it come to life, right as tenacious D said you can't manufacture in
Spirado so so it's it's this dichotomy because the hardest thing you could do like write a hit song
Right. Oh my gosh, like everybody knows what chords it is
Like there's four chords five chords that you're gonna be using whatever and yet
Jack White is writing hit song after hit song after hit song coming out
He's he's bringing them out of thin air, right?
And yet someone else is spending their entire life trying and they can't make it happen
So it's weird that you can have because I kind of wrote down a note. I was like ideas have no value
Because ideas by themselves have no value they have no value
And you have a riff in your head or you got an idea for some new component or whatever
If it's just an idea man, it has no value and that's proven out in the fact that if you go and find investors for your idea
They're gonna buy your idea for pennies on the dollar
You're gonna own like a little tiny piece of it if you're lucky if you are if now if you are able to hang on to the idea
And you're able to execute you could end up being you know
Peter teal or Elon Musk that came up with the idea of PayPal and held on to it for long enough that okay here we go
so
Have you got anything got it you think it's like it's like a it's a war man
It's a war the whole thing from the idea that you come up with that's great to the executioner and by the way if you're an idea guy
and
Your stubborn
The don't be so I'm gonna I'm gonna give you some advice don't be stubborn find somebody that's an execution guy and be like
Hey, dude, I got a really good idea
Do you want to help me execute this thing and there's all kinds of different people out there and
Some people idea people and some people are execution people and you got to work with these other people to get things to move very few people
Are gonna come up with an idea
Execute the idea properly with the right logistics to make this thing work. That's why you build a team
So I was a radio man in the day was back in the day
So I was a radio man
So which man I was always on the field and I had a little flashlight with me right a little red lens flashlight
And I would tape it up
So it'd be really really dim because a little bit of light goes a long way and you just need to look at your your
Radio in the dark and you got a turn on your little flashlight
but you know you have a batteries and
They wear out and you know where it gets left to like all those all kinds of problems and it's big
And I remember one day I was in a helicopter
And I'm looking at the pilot and the pilot's reading his map and he's got a lip light, you know, this is day
I'm sure you do. Yeah, right. It's like so where they where they're headset, you know where the radio comes out
There was a little cool. How did you turn it on?
I think like either like your tongue or something like whatever the
magnet electro or I'm Donald Blight but like
You're your contact with it illuminated the light and what if you bite down on her or to close your eyes or something
So but all it was was an LED a little dim LED light that you could see and
It's like LED like every light in my house right now is an LED light
But I but I didn't think oh I should make a flashlight a little tiny tiny flashlights like that because you had
You wouldn't have looked at remember when you were kidding you had some kind of a toy that was lit up with an LED light
It's like any random toy. They had little LED lights
Those are bright enough to be a flashlight and I was a radio man and I didn't put two and two together and
By the time when Iraq the Iraq war started someone else came out with little LED flashlights and now that's all they're gonna use
This period so there's a classic example
I'm I didn't that idea is worth probably hundreds and hundreds of millions probably worth billions of dollars now of
LED flashlights
It was right in front of you is dancing around. I didn't see it
So that that idea would have had it unlimited value to me if I could have executed, but I couldn't I didn't know it
I just didn't know it so
That's why the idea has limitless value, but at the same time if you don't execute some no value at all
That's the kind of the same as Bluetooth remember cuz when Bluetooth came out, right? It was like
Just the earpiece. It's like that's Bluetooth now like everything is good to the truth
It's like no wire. There's no wire anymore necessary and Bluetooth owns like Bluetooth
They own that stuff so they're getting yeah, yeah
Imagine getting paid on every set of head of Bluetooth headphones now and every to speaker and boot. Yeah
So there's a good one
Little technology activity. All right
I'm back to the book here. I can recall a former vice president of one of the companies with which I'm associated
He would formulate some good plans, but never followed up to see it as plans got expected results. I
Knew he had served in World War two so out of curiosity
I looked into the nature of the service and found that his entire period of service was a staff officer
He had never had the advantage of a command job. So his training was incomplete
Maybe if he'd remained in the service longer, we could have deployed
He'd developed his leadership qualities as well and this man would still be with the company that you got fired
So there you go
Couldn't execute good coming up with plans just couldn't get him executed. You may have heard the story about general perzing World War one
While inspecting a certain area he found a project that was not going too well
Even though the second lieutenant in charge seemed to have a pretty good plan
General perzing asked the lieutenant how much pay he received and when the lieutenant replied a hundred and forty one dollars and sixty seven per
Months or general perzing said just remember that you get paid a dollar sixty seven for making your plan and issuing the order and a hundred and forty
Dollars for seeing that gets carried out. I
Think I heard that story about Paton too. I guess maybe Paton heard it from from purging I
Am not sure that I would go to that extreme
Certainly in these days problems are complex and good staff work plays a large part in resolving them
I have known commanders who were not too smart
But they were very knowledgeable about personnel and new enough to select the very best for their staffs
Remember a good leader is one who causes or inspires others a staff or subordinate commanders to do the job
Isn't that interesting word causes?
Or inspires like it's just happening
Furthermore no leader knows it all
Although so you sometimes may find one who seems to think he does and that's coming from that's from the document
Even he had a deal with people that thought they knew everything
A leader should encourage the members of his staff to speak up if they think the commander is wrong
He should give he should invite constructive considered criticism
It is a grave error for the leader to surround himself with a yes staff. Oh
See he developed this idea and I executed in the book leadership strategy and tactics don't be you know
No, no yes, man, right? He's knowing this
General George C. Marshall was an excellent excellent exponent of the principle of having subordinates speak up
when he first became chief of staff of the army
The secretariat of that office consisted of three officers who presented orally to General Marshall the staff papers or studies
Coming from the divisions of the general staff. I was a member of the secretariat
We presented in abbreviated form the contents of the staff studies citing the highlights of the problem involved the various possibilities course
various possible courses of action considered and the action recommended at the end of his first week as chief of staff
Marshall called us into his army
Staff Marshall called us into his office and opened the discussion by saying I am disappointed in all of you
When we inquired if we might ask why he said you haven't disagreed with a single thing I have done all week
We told him it so happened that we were in full agreement with every paper that had been presented that we knew what he wanted
And that we would add our comments to anything that we considered should be questioned
The very next day we presented a paper as written and then expressed some thoughts which in our opinion
Made the recommended action
questionable
General Marshall said now that is what I want unless I hear all the arguments against an action
I am not sure whether I am right or not
I was at FTX with us along front
And I said something along the lines of and I actually wrote it down
But it's something along the lines of if you don't get any pushback
It's it's a warning
So and that's his leader and it could be a warning for a bunch of different. It's a symptom for a bunch of different problems
Like the primary one. Hey, maybe everyone's scared of to tell you what they actually think of your stupid plan
Maybe you're hoarding information so they can't even assess whether a plan is accurate or not
Maybe you've got them trained to a point where all they want to do is agree with you if you train your leaders
Like you can do such a exquisite job training your leaders that you've replicated yourself
And you don't want to replicate yourself
You want to have people that have different perspectives. That's the goal
Yeah, I wrote down
You're going kind of going through that list of all the potential reasons why I know there's more but I wrote down
We all see it the same way and how easy is to fall in the trap for like that's a good thing
That's not a good thing
We I don't want people and the whole point of the risk behind that is is we can have a great relationship
You see the way I operate we get aligned we get fundamentally observing in the world the same way and that seems like such a good thing
But it's not I actually want you to see it from a perspective from a perspective that I don't see him like hey dude
You don't see what I'm seeing over here
So when we talk about being aligned we want alignment on what our outcomes want to be and what the objective is
But I don't want everybody seeing the problem the same way that I see the problem
And you know even
Checking out what we want our outcomes to be I've worked with clients before where I'm like well
Why do you want to do that?
I
Remember was working with a client that was like what we want to grow by X percentage. I was like well, why do you want to do that?
What's the reason well because because we want to grow okay?
So what is it going to take to grow and you start like why do you want to do that?
It's some some businesses they get into a good spot and look we are programmed now in the business world right?
Program to hey growth
growth is success and
There's a lot of reality to that right there's a lot of reality to growth is success depending on the type of business
but like you you get a small family business and
And well they got you know husband and wife they got a good business going and they have a
kid and
They want to grow the business well
You know what was that kid want to do? Does that kid want to take over the family business?
Is do they want to keep this business at a sustainable rate where they can kind of?
Continue on with their business and don't have to look you're getting oh you oh you go to uh?
You go to Florida every every winter for three weeks
When you're if you grow your business all of a sudden that Florida trip three weeks you can't do that anymore
So you listen what are you trying to do?
So even like where's our outcome you need to even question that and this is a great example
You know we've gone through in the well with Vietnam
with
Iraq and Afghanistan, you know
To what end?
And I know Jamie just did on the woman's assemble. She taught she talked about to what end which is a book by Ward Justin and
She took what I had talked about at the council at the council. I kind of opened up talking about
To what end and this is what Ward just was all asking about the Vietnam War here
We are we're spending billions of dollars. We're losing American lives
We're killing a bunch of Vietnamese people
To what end what are we trying to do here? And if you have that attitude in
Every decision that you make, you know when echo wakes up in the morning goes down, you know to the donut shop
In orders of donut like to what end are you doing this if you ask yourself that honestly to what end well?
I know it's gonna taste good. Okay, but like where are you gonna be in a few years? Well, you know what actually I'm doing this right now
I get it. I'm just gonna have this donut, but you know, I'm gonna do a hard workout later
And I'm not gonna eat anything else sweet for the next, you know, couple days. Okay, so you have a plan
But where people lose it is when they're not actually thinking about where they're trying to go
That's a problem so ask yourself that question to what end and
If your boss is telling you to do something
Or your boss has come up with a plan or you're presenting a boss a plan to your boss
And your boss doesn't agree with you. You might be you might not be aligned on where you're trying to go
Well, wait a second
Are we trying to grow the business? Okay. Well, what part of the business are we trying to grow?
There's all kinds of questions to be asked here
So pay attention to those things
If you happen to be a detail if you happen to be detailed to a staff try to be a good staff officer
And if possible avoid being a yes, man
I would suggest to all commanders that they inform the members of their staffs that anyone who does not
Disagree once in a while with what is about to be done is is of limited value and perhaps should be shifted to some other place
Where he might occasionally have an idea
So you got someone that never disagrees with you get rid of them. They're they're not helping you
Of course, I am thinking about the decision-making process
After decision is made everyone must be behind it a hundred percent
I thought the British were admirable in this respect during World War two no matter how much discussion
There had been on a subject as soon as a decision was made you never heard any doubts expressed
You had to believe that everyone involved in making the decision had never entertained any ideas
Except those expressed in the decision
We could talk for a long long long time about this
And the reason we could talk for a long long time about this is
Because there's an element that comes into play when Dave and I are an echo or discussing how we're gonna execute something
And that's that thing that comes into play is Dave's ego
Echoes ego and my ego and once those things are in play
all of a sudden
It's very difficult for us to walk out of the room feeling like I support Dave's plan a hundred percent
It's very very difficult because damn I'm just a little bit more
Practically savvy than Davis and he's imposing this plan on me and he's not listening to what I'm saying and I'm gonna be pissed
and
By the way, I'm pissed echoes even more pissed because his plan was even more desperate than mine
was from Dave's plans and his ego is even bigger so now we now he's
Totally against what we're doing, but you've barked the order so we're gonna go do it
We're gonna do it pissed and we're not gonna be successful. Will you put ego into this equation? This is what causes this problem
Yeah, and that ego
That ego when it comes out
Will reveal itself when I now have to do your plan and it doesn't quite go the way that you were thinking and I kind of know
That's gonna happen that my ego is almost gonna be happy to see that failure
I'm gonna take some and I might I might be keeping my ego mostly in the control
But there's a little part of me if I don't really have that thing in check
a little part of me that's
Once this little hiccup this little error this little failure this little setback
I almost want it to happen and
When I get to the point of how I'm actually supposed to work through that and solve that problem and my ego is really
Barking at hate you knew this was coming you knew tacos plan was stupid and you knew this is gonna happen
It's almost like I want that failure to occur
So I can see do you go
Told you man as opposed to
Solving that which I probably can but how powerful the ego is and I think you've said it like I'd rather
Be right then win. Oh, yeah, there's been countless people and and you know a good the the ultimate example
That is there's people that would rather die themselves
and get their men killed
Then subordinate their ego to someone else or admit that they were wrong about something like that
And then there's there's examples throughout history disgusting examples like that
now
Here's a I'm gonna give everyone
Just a beautiful beautiful piece of advice right now
And you know, I don't say this very often. This is a beautiful piece of advice to for everyone
Here's my default mode when I walk into the planning room with Dave and echo
My default mode is going with Dave's plan or I'm going with echoes man. My default mode is to support someone else's plan
That's my default mode
My default mode is not to impose my plan on everybody else never and by the way
It doesn't matter if I'm the boss walking in to talk to you guys or if I'm the subordinate walking in to talk
It doesn't matter my default mode is I'm gonna go with someone else's plan. I'm gonna go with what you recommend
The only and look if you come up with the most wazoo plan ever created BTF Tony
BTF Tony who I love
Who's the freaking tactical is he's as tactically sound as any human has ever been and like he came up with
In Ramadi, he's like I want to take the freaking like he wanted it. It was something that was like legitimately insane
He wanted to take the little side be like a little side-by-side with himself just by himself and do like a patrol out
It's just some random part of Ramadi and set up in a building or something because he thought he could get away with it
Just going by himself
I was like Tony, bro
You can't do that dude
You can't you can't just go by yourself and you know what? Hey, there's actually a 90% chance that it would have worked
It's also a 10% chance. We never saw Tony again, which I was put the risk out, right?
So Tony, I'm sorry, but like unless someone just comes up
But other than that one time Tony and I in the time that we work together
We were never in disagreement about a plan more than like
0.01% huh, you know like oh hit it from here up sounds good
And you know what basically eventually as I worked with Leif and Seth it all became that now what I had to be careful of is
What you already gave warning of like I didn't want
To say like oh life came up with a plan. That's great. I don't question
I would always pull myself back far enough to go. Okay, just make sure life. I'd make look at stoner's plan
I'll just make sure yep. Hey, is there anything I can I poke any holes in this I?
Hate saying devil's advocate, but you have to be a little bit of a devil's advocate to make sure that you're you're trying to poke holes
In plans to see if there's any holes in there because you don't want to miss anything
And the only way to be able to do that is if you're detached obviously
but
default
Subordinate your ego and let's go with Dave's plan sounds good man
And and and that's how you roll. That's how you solve that problem and
By the way, the only part of you that really thinks your plan is better
It's just your ego because because here's what you're planning what your planning is something that you can't know
You're planning something that's gonna happen in the future
Something that's gonna happen on enemy territory or against a competitor or in a market. You don't understand. That's what you're doing
So when you come up with a plan
It's about something that you can't guarantee anyways
So why would you commit or over commit to it doesn't make any sense?
So be careful that
I
Don't want to overemphasize leadership of senior officers my interest extends to leaders of all ranks
I would caution you to always remember that an essential qualification of a good leader is the ability to recognize select and train junior leaders. I
Would like to quote from a book entitled the born at Reveley and written by Colonel Red reader. I have this book in the queue by the way
Colonel reader was on a trip for General Marshall and one of his assignments was to inquire into his junior leadership
This is an account of his conversation with Colonel Bryant more on Guadalcanal
Colonel more I said tell me something about leadership. I
Had hit a sensitive spot. He forged ahead leadership
The greatest problem here is the leaders and you have to find some way to weed out the weak ones
It's tough to do this when you're in combat
The platoon leaders who cannot command who cannot foresee things and who cannot act on spur of the moment
In an emergency or a distinct detriment. That's what's so interesting
This had a bunch of conversations with my last client about
The psychology of military incompetence and
The authoritarian mindset and how people do well that do well in garrison
Don't do well in combat
And that's what he's talking about people who can't foresee things people who cannot act on the spur of the moment in an emergency
He goes on to say here. It's hot here as you can see men struggle. They get heat exhaustion
They come out vomiting and throwing away equipment
The leaders must be leaders and they must be alert to establish straggler lines and stop this thing
The men have been taught to take salt tablets, but the leaders don't see to this the result heat exhaustion
The good leaders seem to get killed
The poor leaders get the men killed
The big problem is leadership and getting the shoulder straps on the right people
60 millimeter Japanese mortars fit shells fell about 30 yards away and attacked a number of coconut trees
I lost interest in taking dictation and the colonel stopped talking when the salvo was over and things were quiet again
Bryant Moore said where was I you saw that patrol?
I tell you this not one man in 50 can lead a patrol in this jungle
If you can find one who the good patrol if you can find out who the good patrol leaders are before you hit a combat zone
You have found something
I have had to get rid of about two people
I have had to get rid of about 25 officers because they just weren't leaders
I had to make the battalion commander weed out poor junior leaders
This process is continuous our junior leaders are finding out that they must know more about their men
The good leaders know their men
Man
The
It's weird that he would wrap up that section with good leaders know their men after talking about all these other things good leaders know their men
He goes on now this is getting out of the quote from that book
Raised it or born at Reveley says what are the distinguishing characteristics of a leader?
There are many essential characteristics that he must possess
But I will mention a few that come to mind as perhaps most important first
He must know his job without necessarily being a specialist in every phase of it a few years ago
It was suggested that all engineering subjects be eliminated from required studies at West Point. I
Objected for example bridge building is a specialty for engineers yet
I think every senior officer should have some idea of what is involved when we reach the Rhine in World War two
It was not necessary that I know how to build a bridge, but it was very helpful that I knew what was involved so that I could see
That the bridge engineers received proper support to in tonnage allowed and the an idea of the time involved
Specialties dominate almost every problem faced today by the military leader or the business manager the this individual must get deeply
Enough into his problem that he can understand it and intelligently manage it
Without going so far as to become a specialist himself in every phase of the problem
You don't have to be a tank expert in order to effectively use a tank of your command
Yeah
This makes me think at the basic school for the Marine Corps is that philosophy is I don't care what your job is gonna be
You're gonna have some exposure to everything else
You're not gonna be an expert in any of it
But it sure does help a lot if I'm gonna work with you and you're an engineer and have some framework for what you're doing
So I know what the challenges are
So I know how to help you or support you or make sure you're at least getting what you need
And the idea of not being a specialist but knowing what all your specialists are dealing with I
Mean that served me well, and I think the very start for that for them for me was the Marine Corps the basic school
Yeah, they get that baseline set for everybody everything
Yep, and and look when you're at a business or you go into a business or you take over a business or you move into a new department
You don't have to become an expert but to sit down and walk around walk the floor
Go and do that thing, you know go go get on the manufacturing line and do the various parts of the job
So you look you're gonna be terrible at it. You've never done it before
But go do it. Yeah, and
It's crazy how how easy that is and how much and I'm not exaggerating like in one day in one day
How much you can learn from just spending one day out there?
You do not need nor do they expect you to be an expert on any of this stuff and not just the mileage you get by just building the
relationship but
The amount of time that it takes to get
Exposure what they're doing is actually really small. You don't need that much time to get out there on the line
I go, oh, hey, let me try that. Hey, can I see that? Hey, how does this work and just in a few hours what you can learn?
Especially when you're starting at zero if you're starting at zero you're gonna learn infinitely more in just a little bit of time
So if you see this some giant daunting task, it's really not it's not nearly as hard
And I remember this learning about you know inside of a squadron all the different things worked
You spent an hour or two with somebody and just sit with them and have them show you their job
And then you do their job for a little bit in a couple hours what you can learn from that
Yeah, and compared to the people that didn't do that. You're a freaking expert totally
so
All right, here's one of his one to remember Thomas J. Watson of IBM once said that genius in an executive is
The ability to deal successfully with matters. He does not understand
So good and and my note when I read that is
The genius
What will make this person be able to successfully deal with matters that they don't understand is
Having the humility to admit that they don't understand and saying all right
Let's let's get this figured out because I don't know what to do right now
This leads to another principle of leadership which I have often found neglected both in military and in business
While you need not be a specialist in all phases of your job
You should have a proportionate degree of interest in every aspect of it
And those concerned your subordinates should be aware of your interest. That's what you just talked about Dave
You must get around and show interest in what your subordinates are doing even if you don't know much about
the technique of their work and when you are making these visits
Try to pass out praise when do as well as corrections or criticism. There you go
It's what you just talked about go light on the criticism part. You don't even know what the hell you're doing
Let me show you how to work that thing there son. No, don't do that
We tend to speak up only when things go wrong
This is such a well-recognized fact that a complete department is an essential part of many business firms to my knowledge
No comparable faculty exists anywhere to expedite the handling of praise for a job well done
It's a good point
We all get enough criticism and we learn to take it even Sir Winston Churchill despite his matchless
accomplishment found occasion to say I have benefited enormously from criticism and at no point did I suffer from any perceptible lack thereof
So he's always getting criticized even Churchill but let us remember that praise also has a role to play
Napoleon was probably the finest exponent of this principle of recognition through his use of a quarter inch of ribbon to improve the
Moral and get results since the quote from Napoleon where he said you can basically get someone to do anything by giving him a little ribbon
And he's right
Both mental and physical energy are essential
To successful leadership how many good leaders have you known who were lazy or weak or who couldn't stand the strain
Sherman was a good example of a leader without standing mental and physical energy
I cite him with some trepidation because some of you may be from Georgia
However during the advance from chat chat a new job chat a new guy to Atlanta
He often went for days with only two or three hours of sleep per night and was constantly in the saddle
Reconning and often knew the dispositions and terrain so well that he could maneuver the enemy out of position without a serious fight and with minimum losses
Conversely a sick commander is of limited value it is not fair to the troops under him to have a leader who's not functioning 100%
I had to receive relieve several senior commanders during World War two because of illness
It is often pointed out that Napoleon didn't lose a major battle until Waterloo where he was a sick man
So lazy weak
That's a problem
A leader should possess human understanding and consideration for others
Men are not robots and should not be treated as though they were machines so this goes back to the idea of AI
But I think you're I think you're a very good leader
I think you're I think they're pretty easily going to be able to put morale and emotion emotional programming into
Leadership decision-making oh squints squints over there from echo Charles. Am I wrong?
Eventually, I mean I guess that the argument for AI is like you know how AI works
It's like it's a constantly learning learning learning learning right from like input input learn learn learn
So in the beginning it'll probably be like freakin you watch a demolition man
Remember I'm moving I think I'm pretty sure I walked out of the movie demolition man
Okay, so and then I miss something big like it was dumb
I'm not gonna argue whether it was a semester song. Yeah, yeah, I walked out of it was dumb
So it was dumb seemingly was really dumb right seemingly but oh there's an odd layer
I missed out on yet metaphorical masterpiece that I get snuck by me, but I wouldn't say masterpiece. Okay, but
There's a part on there real subtle part subtlety subtlety where Simon Phoenix, right? He's a bad guy
I got a cryo prison whatever and he goes to one of these booths as these booths rolling around like that
There's just a booth for like whatever you want kind of a thing. It's like an ATM for anything
So this booth can give you like it's like the internet is on there and all this stuff
But it can give you a mood adjustment
So if you're like, oh, I want to ego boost right and you press the buttons or whatever and it says boy
You look great today
Like that can stuff but in real life that wouldn't really work right because you're programming the machine
I need to go but oh you look great today a machine giving me compliments after I asked it like brother
That doesn't work like that, but the AI thinks it does see I'm saying so if you're trying to program
Emotional stuff like morale boosting stuff in an AI at first. It's gonna look like that. Yeah, but but here's my counter argument
I don't really want to go full like Lex Friedman like discussion on AI because I don't know enough about it
but
you could probably
Put a program in there that we would say something like hey echo Charles. I've assessed your appearance and
and
Comparatively to the rest of the population today. You are in the top 6% of looking good
Congratulations echo go have a fun day. So now all of a sudden it's giving you some data
Here's my hypothesis. I get it and look that's not a terrible assessment
But I would think I think anyway and try search your emotional soul not you jockeau Dave
search your emotional like party where like
Even if it's true if it's coming from a machine who cares it has to come from a actual person who quote-unquote
Understands me at the very least as a person. So I'm saying so like a ego boost from machine
Just the mere fact that it's not from an actual person
Brats it's hard. Yeah, I can't have you ever had any kind of like
feelings
Towards an inanimate object
Like a guitar like you've got like real expensive computers, right? Yes
Have you ever had a computer that you kind of had like some kind of bond with no?
No, and here to answer your question Dave. Did you have any kind of bond with your airplane? Oh hell? Yeah, absolutely
But it's like I have feelings for the airplanes that I flew there. I remember looking at I'm going down
Right, but I would be surprised if you didn't look at a heavy machine gonna go
I really like the way you look today. Yeah, but the machine isn't the thing that's giving you the compliment
It's like it'll have to do I think you know, I don't know I could be wrong. I'm not Lex Friedman. You guys know this
It's usually has to do a lot with or probably everything to do with what you specifically did in
With this machine that gave you certain personal feelings like personal unique very unique in like not replicable
You got to remember like right now. There's chat. There's people right now. There's bots on Twitter today
We're probably less today, but there's there's bots and stuff out there that are having conversations with people and people can't tell
Yeah, they can't tell yes true, but once they knew it was a bot if you tell them it's a bot brother
It's gonna change right they're not gonna be oh equally as in lover only thing you got to get over is like the little hump of
You just tell people like oh no this thing can actually assess
Wait where you're at and then people go okay. This computer is smarter than your wife
So your wife telling you look good is fine, but this thing telling you look good is factual. So there you go
Believe it you go up. What'd you say ego boost you go boost? Yeah
Go boost I'm trying to think like because not now that you put it like that. I kind of like yeah, maybe but like I
Still it's hard. Let me give you an example. Let me give you an example JP to know sure hell
Yeah, he was wearing like a wrist strap that told him if he was tired or not
Yeah, he believed it. Yeah, he took it off. Yeah, because he was having bad days
Because that thing told him he was tired. He didn't feel tired, but he that thing said hey, you're tired and he was like oh damn
I'm tired. Oh, yeah, and so he did that happened a few times. He said you know what this is bullshit
Yeah, but so he believed the machine it affected his mood because it had the data
Hmm so end of discussion. I think you can just stand down bro because I think that he's got proven wrong
So like if it was like an evil you got ego down
So if it was like a report card like
Hmm a report card that maybe cuz think about it. Okay, this team needs a morale boost
They're losing right or whatever
So what what would the machine do like assess the good things that are happening and report back?
Yeah, imagine imagine at halftime
The the coach comes in and he's like hey, I'm checking your your whoops straps right now
I'm checking your data
Everyone has more energy than they had at halftime than we did at the last game that we won
You guys have the power to get and that was true. Yeah
Yeah
So that's that machine can you affect your mood is what I'm saying
I guess yep, yep, I guess like hidden information or something that you might be ignoring like that something like that
I'm saying that a
Machine
Can affect someone's mood. Hey, I you know what I have a machine affect my mood
Damn printer doesn't work. Yeah, right printer doesn't work all of a sudden. I'm like damn. I'm mad. I get angry
I think that's a different thing, but
All right, so check this out what we're saying is men are not robots
It should not be treated as if they were and he says this I do not by any means suggest coddling
But men are highly intelligent complicated beings who respond favorable
Favorably to human understanding and consideration by this means their leader will get maximum effort from each of them
He will also get loyalty and in this connection. It is well to remember that loyalty goes down as well as up
The sincere leader will go to bat for his subordinates when such action is needed
Take care of your people and your people will take care of you a
Good leader must sometimes be stubborn
Here I am reminded of the West Point cadet prayer a leader must be able to choose the harder right
Instead of the easier wrong armed with courage of his convictions. He must often fight to defend them
Then he has to come to decision after thorough analysis and
When he assures, he's right. He must stick to it even to the point of stubbornness
Grant furnishes a good illustration of this trait
He never knew what he was supposed to be licked a less stubborn man might have lost at Shiloh
Maybe you've heard the story of Grant in the Richmond campaign when after being up all night making his reconnaissance and
Formulating and issuing orders. He laid down under a tree and fell asleep sometime later
A courier rode up and informed the general that disaster had hit his right flank and that his troops at the end of that line
Were in full retreat
General Grant sat up
Shook his head to clear the cobwebs and said it can't be so and went back to sleep and
It wasn't so he had confidence in himself and in his subordinate leaders
so
There you go, and we just
Did you have a chance to listen to Civil War? No, not yet excursion
We're just about the grants just about the role in the scene from the east or sorry from the west the Western or the Western campaign
Grants about the role in there because he's winning
So it's gonna be it's gonna be cool to get into him as a leader
He goes on to say this
I do not mean to infer that there is always just one solution to a problem usually there's one best
Solution but any good plan boldly executed is better than indecision. There is usually more than one way to attain results
This goes back to what I was saying earlier. That's why I'll go with Dave's plan. I'll go to the echoes plan
I don't care. I don't care because the time we waste arguing about which way is better is
Time of indecision and that's what's gonna cost us
So Dave you got a decent plan a minimally viable plan cool go execute
Damn we we work together right now Dave
You are executing things like
wildly
Often executing plans executing missions and I mean you usually
Sometimes give me like a after-action report sometimes about how it went and everything
You know if there's something outstanding that happened outstanding in any direction
Maybe something good. Maybe something like oh this week we could have done this better. Yeah, but I
mean
That's how you have to run things so much easier
Yeah, I'm
There's a lot of these comments that he's made like the course that you're reading
I'm trying to picture hearing this and
There are times you say something and and people like oh
He just said defend defend your convictions
And it's like a little if you don't understand what the context of that
There's a little bit of risk in there because that can be like hey listen
I'm sorry, Jocko, but this is how I want to get this thing done and I'm gonna defend
That conviction and I just can't help but think about
Like this the example you and I that you were talking about about you and me and
Something we have to think about echelon for all the time is a lot of times when people hear these military examples
We're talking about the conflict. We're having with our enemies
Like he just told that story like a lesser man when I've lost that battle. Hey listen when you're fighting like an actual enemy
Defend those convictions, but if Jocko and I are on the same team and we're actually working together
I am far less inclined. I'm almost not inclined at all to defend my convictions
And of course I gotta be careful with that too. You said it well, that's a dichotomy
I don't want to just roll over and say whatever you want, but if I come in with a plan you come into the plan
I go oh
Dude, that's a that's a totally reasonable plan. That plan will probably work. I
Am not inclined to defend my convictions against you. Who is my ally?
Who's my friend who's who wants the same out?
You know good outcome that I want which is very different from an
Actual opponent an actual enemy, you know in the military those are very stark obvious contrasts. We're fighting against the Nazis
We're gonna defend those convictions to the end or like another company that
They don't want to coexist with you want to take all your clients and run you into the ground
So just even being cautious with the idea of defending those convictions if it's someone on my team and they have an idea
The chances are especially if it's like most companies most people aren't dumb most people are pretty smart
They got an idea they thought about it
If I can find any reason to abandon my position and go your position
I'm gonna do that unless once like you said once in a blue moon like dude
Your idea is terrible and we just kind of talk through it. It's not that big of a deal
I reveal a couple things move on but 99 times out of 100 your ideas and my ideas
They're actually both gonna work and if you got an idea
I am not inclined to be quite honest. I am not inclined to defend my idea not because I want to I don't want to upset you
And you're my boss right it's because I don't do that's totally gonna work
Let's just go execute on that and what that actually gives me is what you just described the end is
and I want to be careful with this but I
Don't spend a lot of time telling you what I plan on doing now. Listen. We are strategically aligned
We have we as a whole company we meet and we get aligned strategically
And I don't mean to say that people should be out there operating the total autonomy
But in terms of this day this event this thing
It's I don't spend a lot of time walking you through with what my plans are because six seven years into this
We've gotten to a point where Dave can go execute and you're comfortable with that
and my point of that is
Because I don't spend a lot of time trying to force my way into what I want to do you've learned like hey Dave's a flexible guy
He's he's gonna get to the same outcome his way my way doesn't really matter and that's cultivated a bunch of trust
So defending your convictions if you're not careful can actually make you appear to be stubborn to a fault and now
Jocko might be like is Dave gonna adjust as he needs to with this client or is he gonna just dig into his plan?
so
Be careful about defending your convictions as well depending on the situation especially what it is that you're trying to accomplish
Yeah, I think
What could get confusing for someone?
It's just confusing the words conviction and idea. Yeah, right
For me to have a conviction that we should take care of our clients
I'm gonna defend that conviction so when Dave rolls up to me and it's like hey, Jocko
I think we could screw this client over and get some more money from them and do less work and it
Doesn't really matter about what the outcome is. Yeah now. We're I'm not gonna be like that sounds like a good idea
Because we're not aligned
Now but defending ideas which is like ideas like I said earlier ideas can be pretty much worthless, right?
And and if we are gonna assign value to an idea
We're assigning value to my idea and assigning value to your idea
We can't assign a lot of value to either one of those things because neither one of them has any execution behind it yet
So we're just basically assigning value to air. It's like it's like dogecoin, right?
We're just kind of assigning or what is it f TT which is the f TT is what the FTX token
So these are the guys Sam Bakeman Friedman Sam Bake Friedman
SPF this guy ripped off billions of dollars from people and one of the ways that he did
What was they made their own little cryptocurrency and just assigned value to it said?
Oh, yeah, this this has this value and then they borrowed money against this thing that they made up
And everyone said this guy's smart and he's really nice. So we're gonna give him we're gonna let him keep doing it
That's what that's what so when we assign if I assign my idea value and I assign your idea value
I can't assign it that much value because it's just something that we both made up. Yeah, so why am I gonna over invest in FTT?
It's worthless
It has no value. You also can't see the future. I can't see you. What are you arguing?
What are you fighting me over? Yeah, the the unknown of the outcome
So the convictions, you know when we're in combat and the conviction of hey
We need to do to have the high ground morally with the enemy. Yes
I'll defend that high ground. I'll defend that conviction all day now
Even the idea of hey Dave, we need to get the high ground tactically
I'll defend that really strong
But you might say hey, John, listen, we got a AC 130 that's gonna be overhead and we don't need the high ground
And we could it'd be much smarter to have these troops over here on this piece of terrain
Which will set up a blocking force for where the enemy is located. I
Can adjust that that's an idea and look I'm as I'm as about committed to the tactic of taking the high ground as a human could possibly be
But I'm not going to die. I'm not gonna I'm not gonna die on it unless you know
Dave's like well the high ground doesn't matter whatever and I'm looking at it
Well, what are you gonna do if the enemy gets up there? Yeah, well, I'm not worried about it. Okay. Well, we need to worry about it
So that's a different so just don't confuse
Defending your conviction with defending your idea defending your plan defending your thoughts even and open your mind
That that conviction versus ideas is awesome because the conviction we actually have to agree on we are going to take care of our people
We are going to help these clients be successful and if you discover that I'm like actually what I want to do is
I'm gonna lie to them that makes a month. Yeah, that's the conviction and then the ideas
It's so much easier to not care so much about the ideas if you know that we're aligned on that conviction like oh
Dave's going a totally different direction. He's gonna get to that high ground. It's just his way of doing it
But he actually sees we that clients getting taken care of or give an impact and my point to that is
We don't talk about the tactical ideas nearly as much as we used to because you're like, oh, yeah, I know where he's going
I know what Dave's doing and and
Yeah, we have a pretty good thing going and you don't just cut people loose
But if you can be aligned the convictions, it's so much easier to be flexible the ideas. Yeah, like
worst case scenario
You didn't actually you like as long as you're not going against the convictions that we share
There's actually nothing you can screw up bad enough to like have a problem, right?
You know, there's nothing that we can't clean up on a phone call. We're like, hey, dude
I
I over indexed a little bit
We spent a little too much money on this client and I owe them another two gigs and and by the way they really want you
So you're coming to it. I'm like, all right, cool, right, you know, Jamie
Booking me for free gigs across America. Jamie Cochran. Thank you. No, don't call Jamie. She's not doing anymore. All right
Going back to the book here another quality of leadership that comes to mind is self-confidence
You must have confidence in yourself your unit and your subordinate commanders and in your plan
This recalls a couple of incidents
Just before the invasion of Normandy in 1944 a story went around that some of the units were making the assault on the beaches
That they would suffer 100% casualties that none of them would come back. I
Found it necessary to visit these units and talk to all ranks. I told them that of course
We would suffer casualties, but certainly our losses would not be a hundred percent and that with our air and naval support
We would succeed
After our landing a correspondent told me that on his way across the channel in one of the late leading
LSTs he had noticed a sergeant reading a novel struck by the seeming lack of concern
By this sergeant. He asked aren't you worried? How can you be reading at a time like this?
The staff sergeant replied no, I'm not worried general Bradley said everything will go all right
So why should I worry?
Yeah
confidence
Right there in the middle right there nice and balanced confidence not overconfident not arrogant, but not self-doubting
That's for sure. I might relate another incident where there's a lack lack of confidence
Where there's a lack of confidence
I had to relieve a senior commander because I learned his men had lost confidence in him this meant of course that we could not
Expect maximum performance by that division after being relieved
The officer came through month came back through my headquarters and showed me a file of statements given to him by his request
I am sure by the burgo master of all the towns his divisions had passed through
If he had confidence in himself, he would not have felt the need for those letters
Pretty good one
So you shouldn't fire me look at everyone loves me. I've got a bunch of letters to prove it. Okay
After seeing the letters
I told the officer that if I had ever had any doubts as to whether to relieve him those doubts were now removed
His letters proved beyond question that he had lost confidence in himself
So it's no wonder his men had lost confidence in him to a
leader must possess
imagination
Whether it be an administrative decision or one mating combat the possible results of that decision must be playing to the one making it
What will be the next step and the one after that?
He only wrote one little two paragraph sentence about imagination
Wish I had a little bit more
Next while there are many other qualities which contribute to effective leadership, I will mention just one more
But it is a very important one
character
This word has many meanings
I'm applying it in the broad sense to character
I'm applying it to the broad sense to describe a person who has high ideals who stands by them and who can be trusted absolutely
Such a person will be respected by all those with whom he is associated and
Such a person will readily be recognized by his associates for what he is
Circumstances mold our character
These circumstances affect different people in different ways
From exactly the same set of circumstances
One man may theoretically build a palace
While another may have difficulty building a lean to
It has been said that a man's character is the reality of himself
I don't think a man's strength of character ever changes
I remember a long time ago when someone told me that a mountain might be reported to have moved
I could believe or disbelieve it as I wished but if anyone told me that a man had to change his character, I should not believe it
So this is a very
This whole thing about character. First of all, it's a little strange
There's a little contradiction in there that he made which is
Circumstances
mold our character
So he's saying that your circumstance that your character does change
Based on circumstances circumstance molds your character and then he's saying that character is not going to change
It's more likely that a mountain gets moved than your character changes. So he's he's
Got a little hypocritical
Statement here, but I think I understand what he's getting at right?
I understand what he's getting at right?
um
I mean, I think he's just talking about the fact that
Your character is molded over time
But once that character is established, it can't be changed now. I can tell you this. I've seen people's character changed
Right. Usually it takes a pretty significant event
to change someone's character
Uh, maybe they get fired
But sometimes people get fired and they there's no no character change whatsoever. They're just still pissed at everybody else
but
Someone gets fired someone gets killed like something some very big event
Can change someone's character
also
A series of smaller events. I mean you look at someone
That you know the kid that you went to high school with and then they joined the marine corps and you see him seven years later
And you're like damn that's a that's a different dude. That's a changing character
So I think the character can change
In fact, I know it can yeah
I'm I'm going through what you're doing trying to latch on what he's saying and understanding where he's coming from
and I I 100% agree with you like
I have seen enough things happen in my life around people that those are character changing events like like you've described
I'm just thinking of the other side of it too trying to
Like a contemplate what he's saying is and we've talked about this when someone reveals that a character to you
Believe them that component of like hey if jaco if I catch and go oh dang
Jocos maneuvering for himself or jaco deep down is actually trying to do this for him
I have to understand like that's who he is and
There's a balance inside there too
But I'm just like I said I'm trying to latch on what he's talking about and we've talked about this idea of somebody's character
If they reveal something about themselves you you have to you cannot pretend like that's not the case or just through some conversation
You're gonna change that character. So I do believe that
Well, I don't believe I know that people's character can change and I don't think there's some age by which it it's now
immovable I think the older you get the harder that is
but
Don't be naive about someone's character either. Yeah, the tricky thing about that is you know
Many of us myself included we're
Optimist we're optimistic people. Yeah, and so I see Dave like short cutting something and I was like
He's part of my team like we're on the same team. Yeah, he's not he's not gonna do that
You see it again. You're like, oh, you know
He probably just doesn't you make a bunch of excuses for somebody and what you're saying is important
You need to when you see those things
You need to put it in the calculus, man
put that into the calculus
because it's
that is a
That is what you're dealing with right that is what you're dealing with as a person
Is what is their character?
The thing about the other huge takeaway from this which is extremely important
Is that you can take two people?
With different character put them in the exact same
Circumstances one person's gonna build a palace the other person's gonna have difficulty putting up a lean to
And what that means is you as an individual
You you need to take ownership of what's happening and make things happen like that's this is this is extreme ownership, right?
One person can look at a situation and go okay. Well, hey, there's a bunch of rock here
Well, I guess I'm gonna build a palace another person looks at it goes. Oh, there's a bunch of rock here
How am I gonna build a lean to there's no sticks like they can't figure it out
so
Getting and and
surrounding yourself
And training people this I believe is a trained attribute as well look just like every other attribute
Some people have a more positive outlook, right? You got to have got got the guy in your company
You got the guy in your platoon that's like, oh, this is never gonna work. What is it?
I think life babbon likes to quote the alien guys
Um, you know 17 days. We're not even making 17 minutes, man
Like that kind of at that guy. There's one of those guys in every platoon totally, right? They're in every platoon
They're in every company every team. There's no way we're gonna beat the competition with this thing
This all this is no like they're hating life. You know, it's funny. I wrote down. I didn't say it
But you know, that's the negative people we we have a name for them. It's naysayers, right?
There's an actual word for that person the English language is so filled with people like that that we have a word for them
It's called a naysayer, right? They exist. They're a type of person
But I think over time you can train people where they start looking at this problem cool, but
I'm not just gonna find a solution. I'm gonna take advantage of this situation. We're gonna do we're gonna do even more
We're gonna do even better positive things are gonna happen. Yeah
so
Take that
into your next scenario
The next circumstances you're put in and ask yourself. I'm gonna build a palace or we're gonna build a lean to which one
I'm gonna do
I'm gonna build a palace or I'm gonna struggle to build a lean to
That's the question
All right, then he goes on to say um
all leaders
Must possess these qualities which I've been discussing and the great leaders are those who possess one or more of them to an outstanding degree
Some leaders just miss being great because they are weak in one or more of these areas
There is still another ingredient in this formula for a great leader that I have left out and that is luck
He must have opportunity then of course when opportunity knocks he must be able to rise and open the door
Some may ask why do you talk about the qualities of leadership?
They maintain that you either have leadership or you don't that leaders are born not made
I suppose some are born with a certain amount of leadership
Frequently we see young children inclined to take charge and direct their playmates
The other youngsters follow these directions without protest, but I am convinced nevertheless that leadership can't be developed and improved by training
Well, well, there's no doubt about that. That's again
Um something else I stole like I hadn't read this before I wrote leadership strategy and tactics, but
You know, it's uh, are leaders born or made the answer? Yes, they are born and they are made
And he says there's no better way to develop leadership than to give the youngster or other individual a job involving
Responsibility and let them work it out. Again, this is my favorite leadership strategy and tactics
What's my favorite tool for leadership leadership?
Put them in charge put them in charge
Put them in charge. That's what you do
Try to avoid telling them how to do it. Boom
Decentralized command that for example is the basis of our whole system of combat orders, which there's a whole
We've talked about this on multiple different podcasts, but you know mission type orders not telling people what to do just tell them
What needs to get done
Why it needs to get done and let them go figure out we tell a subordinate unit commander that we want him to do
What we want him to do and then we leave him to the details
I think this system is largely responsible for the many fine leaders in our services today
We are constantly training and developing younger officers and teachers
Training and developing younger officers and teaching them how to respect
accept responsibility
I was saying this I said this at a muster like
Every moment of every day is an opportunity for training your people like anything that you do if you it's so awesome
You don't need to go on some big
Training trip with your team. No you work in the you work in a sales group. Cool
You're doing a presentation to some client potential client. Cool junior guy echo. Hey, you're gonna present these guys
Hey, you're not oh, you're not ready to present me. You're at least gonna put together a plan
You're gonna brief me in that way. I can get to know the numbers and then I'll brief it because you're not there yet
Uh, we own a construction company. Okay, cool echo. You're gonna come up with a plan on how we're gonna do this concrete pour
You're gonna brief me it
I'm gonna poke some holes in it, but you know, that's pretty much what we're going with it
Look if it's bad if it's horrible if it's gonna be a disaster then we're gonna stop and I'll make the adjustments
But you're gonna come up with a plan and that's what you do. You have the opportunity to train people all day every day with everything
that you do your family
You got to make dinner. You got to go to the grocery store. You got to
Get the yard cleanup. Everything one of those things is an opportunity for you train your team your your your children
On how to come up with a plan how to execute a plan how to build teamwork how to do things efficiently like these are all opportunities
So everything that you're doing all day long you have the opportunity to train people
He goes on to say however
Don't discount experience someone may remind you that Napoleon led armies before he was 30 and that Alexander the great
died at the age of 33
Napoleon as he grew older even commanded even larger armies Alexander might have been even greater had he lived longer and had more experience
In this respect, I especially like general Buckner's theory that judgment comes from experience and experience comes from bad judgment
And then he goes on to say I have been asked to speak on leadership in the past
I have fairly well covered these same thoughts with other groups
Somehow however at the moment these thoughts
Take on added significance for me. You see my first great grandson was born a year ago. We call him fat Henry
What happens to his life and to the lives of his contemporaries may well be in your hands?
Thank you
And that is the end of this
That's the end of this particular speech and you know, I've got a book
I've got a manual department of the army pamphlet 600 tax 65
That's just got it's got a bunch. It's just it's a book of military quotes
And there's a bunch in there from Omar Bradley the greatest leader in the world could never win a campaign unless he understood the men he had the lead
Good to know
The American soldier is one proud is a proud one and he demands professional competence in his leaders in battle
He wants to know that the job is going to be done right with no unnecessary casualties
The non-commissioned officer wearing the chevron is supposed to be the best soldier in the platoon
And he's supposed to know how to perform all the duties expected the American soldier
The period the American American
Soldiers expects his sergeant to be able to teach him how to do his job and he expects even more from his officers boom
Fairness diligence sound preparation
Professional skill and loyalty are the marks of American military leadership
There you go
Another one in war there is no second prize for runner-up. It's a good one to remember
Another one leadership in a democratic army means firmness not harshness
Understanding not weakness
Generosity not selfishness pride not egotism
So he just kind of rolled out some dichotomies for you. He's giving you the balanced one and he's giving you the tendency that most people have
Military organizations success and success in battle depend upon discipline and a high sense of honor
Did they just roll out these quotes?
The nation today needs men who think in terms of service to their country and not in terms of their country's debt to them
That was 1948. I think maybe JFK jacked that one a little bit, right? Did JFK jack that sounds like a little bit
Remember a good leader is one who causes or inspires others staffer subordinate to the job. We already hit that one
Um
So there you go
this guy
definitely some good information
some good things to think about
and
You know, it's leadership and it's leadership as applied to life
so
Um more leadership more life lessons to be learned
Trying to get better
Echo Charles is trying to get better
Yep
What do you got? Yeah, I didn't really talk much about working out that much. No. No, he did say he did say physically fit
Oh, yeah, back. He got that one. He said you got to back it up. He did. So you can't be weak
He said weak leaders weak. Yeah
I think that was a general term, but yeah, I got squats, bro
I agree. He didn't say do squats or curls. He didn't say guys or girls do squats
But there's an inferred kind of implied thing that we all kind of heard right? Yeah, yeah
Yeah, let's face it if you're not doing squats, it doesn't sound like he'd kind of dig you that much given the whole nature
Uh of the whole deal
I get it but for those of us who are doing squats, which is pretty much all of us. Am I right?
Uh, we got some some supplementation for you, you know through this path a lot of pain in this path not pain
So they discover discomfort pain no suffering
Wait, is that pain? No suffering. No suffering. No, no, no, there's pain
But there's no suffering because suffering is like your meat the meaning of pain or like what the meaning you put on the pain that you get
I think that's like the suffering
Yeah, like dom's pain not suffering
Tear your bicep
Pain and suffering. Yeah, because you can't do curls
Seems I understand what I'm saying. I guess man. I'm not sure 100 I'm tracking you, but I don't really want to know
No, no, this is important because it can actually uh
Help diminish some of your suffering if you understand this
Okay, this is what I learned
Equal echo Charles coming in hot. What do you got?
So pain and suffering are two different things suffering is just like what you uh, basically the conclusion you make given the pain that you have
So if it's like, um, if you think your pain is like bad, it's for the negative. It's destroying you. It's whatever then that that
illicit suffering
But if you say hey, this is part of the process that I need or that I have embraced or whatever
It's still pain, but it's not suffering. See I'm saying
Yeah, okay
And so you can assign meaning to whatever you want including pain and you can assign whatever meaning you want to anything
It's sort of like building a palace instead of a lean to so I could be feeling pain and be like this is part of be building the palace
Or I could be feeling the pain going dude. This is horrible
I can I'm not gonna be able to sleep here tonight because I gotta lean to exactly right
All right, see so you do understand it's true
either way
When you do feel this pain eliminate the suffering you got some supplementation will help you for real
Basically add physically. Yeah the monk. That's it. Yeah, that's a big one because if you don't get your protein
Which is hard to do by the way, we established that long time ago
It is hard to do just to just eat food and get the amount of protein that we're gonna need
It's true. Yeah, yeah, but not anymore. Not now that we have moch. Yeah, I'm saying and it tastes good
Um the marketing guys
Are like well the thing is with the moch name. We got to explain what it is
Yeah, moch additional protein in the form of a dessert. That's the problem. Not that hard, dude. No, no, so there you go
Yeah, what is moch and we couldn't just call it a protein thing because it tastes too good
Yeah, it doesn't have the it might have the stigma of like a bro. Yeah, something. Yeah, if I said hey
Do you want this broccoli? But the broccoli tasted but the broccoli tasted like
Like really good. Yeah, it tasted like really good like key. Would I call it broccoli? No, I'd call it something else
Yeah, if I said hey, do you want all the goodness of broccoli, but it tastes really delicious what I call it broccoli
I understand what you mean. Yeah, so if I make a
Thing that's got protein in it a bunch of really good protein
And it's really good for you, but it doesn't taste like your typical trash
Then why would we call a protein we call a moch had to have its own word
Okay, so Dave Burke didn't let me tell you or let me ask you what you think about this
so
I drink moch chocolate most of the time seem saying
But so sometimes I want to make coffee. I make a mocha. Right. You put that's a little bit of chocolate milk in the in the coffee
Right, that's a mocha
Oh wait or chocolate whatever chocolate chocolate milk, whatever. What if I put the chocolate?
Mulk in the coffee. That's a mocha
You see you
So now
And this is my question to Dave Burke if there was a nut do you drink coffee right sometimes? No
Oh, bro. That's not even oh this question not for you then for my people then who drink coffee
If there was a
Mulk flavored coffee chocolate called mocha with caffeine
Would that be viable?
You're gonna get a lot of yeses on that because I'm getting hit up for that. I think so too. Yeah, right?
Because there's there's things like that that are out there, but they're not good for you
There's downside a lot of downside a lot of sugar a lot of crap in it
So there's things like that exist, but they're not
Clean right that's what I'm saying. So
So what if this right here right moch rtd ready to drink?
chocolate flavored
What if we'd added some coffee flavored?
Or just some coffee in there. See what I'm saying. Yeah, like ice coffee in there. There's demand signal for that 100%
Bro, I think I could get down with that. I know you could that sounds like a really cool idea
I see what you're saying. That's what you're saying, but I do know the team we we are very close
You know what I'll give you for your idea one dollar. Oh, I don't yeah. I don't want to know
Oh, no, all good. It's a fantasy right now. It's just a fantasy fantasy. No worth nothing
But I do know a group of people who can ever have somebody present an idea to you that they made you like sign an nda
And then they presented but them no but then they present the idea and you're like, bro
This is the dope or or this is the most obvious thing that like
Is like why I can't believe you're you're presenting this. Yeah, so I know you guys were laughing both of you laughing at me or whatever
When I brought this up
But all that stuff that I said about the ideas in the you know, the cancer pill and all that's from a from a series of real stories
That actually happened to me. Oh, yeah
Wait the actual cancer pill thing. No, no, no, cancer pill was my rebuttal to like the person saying how good their idea
How valuable is it was an nda day? By the way, not to mention
Oh, uh, let's meet up at this coffee shop and like I want to really present breath. Hold on. Oh, yeah
It's so annoying after ask my brother. He makes apps. So he's like
Yeah, really in that game or whatever. But yeah, when we when I made websites, bro, you especially back in what oh
Eight, yeah
Everyone in their mom had ideas for a website
Problem have a website where it does this and that and this and that nda
Sign it because I don't want you to steal my idea. Yep. See what I'm saying
But this mocha idea is very executable. Yep. No, no, that's that's probably that's gonna happen. I'll say that
I'll say that. So there you go. Uh, drcoffuel.com. Get mocha. Get get get some discipline go
Energy, you know, that's another thing like it's called an energy drink, but there's no downside
So it's not really
In the same category actually they're kind of having a new category of healthy energy drinks
Based on the drink that we made damn like some of the retailers that we work with
They're making a new category area. It's like, you know, oh, you can get this junk poison
Yeah, that'll give you a 30 minute a 38 minute freaking
Methanphetamines freak rush and then you'll crash and burn and be
You have type 2 diabetes or you can just take one aisle over and here we are this thing's clean and makes you feel good
I wonder if they'd put it one on one aisle over though
They put it right next to it. It's like I mean, I shouldn't say aisle one shelf over
Oh, yeah, like one little section over. Yeah, like this one says poison. It's got a skull and crossbones
Like a radioactive thing and then this one says healthy. It's got like
Like a strong muscle
Like a flexed arm a life force logo or something like this life force logo. Is that a thing?
Oh, okay. Maybe you need to make one. That's the beginning of my idea. Oh, that's a good idea life force life force logo
Yeah, yeah, but it's true though. Yeah, you're over there create logos on a bunch of ideas too. You know what I'm saying
I'll get the website soon. That's another part of that process. Oh, I already brought the domain
You know url's I own I own url's, you know, like, you know life force
Calm it's like just ran. I'm probably gonna buy that in the next three minutes. Probably somebody already bought it
so the url domain name is like
1% better than the idea
Maybe 10% because ideas are close to zero. Yeah, what's close to zero, but the url is like
I think literally like I mean you can get a url for for $9.99 on
Go Daddy is Go Daddy the one that does that? No, no, no, no, plenty plenty plenty spots domain.com
Go Daddy freaking there's one called the main it. Yeah, there's a lot of places. It's called a register
Is Go Daddy the big the big one? Yeah, that's one of the main ones for sure. That's all my all my stuff is Go Daddy
Yeah, do you ever look at because you got access to my go do you ever look on there and go like
Well, I wonder what this idiot was thinking here with freaking no w w w dot
planting rocks in the world
Comments the thing is that sounds funny to you. But to me I see all those I say, okay, I see what he was
I see where he was going because you look at mine. You're gonna be like, bro. What the hell is this guy thinking, bro? You
You haven't you haven't lived
Give me your worst domain name that you own if I can't I don't know it offhand
But a lot of them have expired too, but right that's that's back in the day when I used to stay up drinking and stuff and doing like
quote-unquote creative stuff
For 999
And like I said earlier, you have the whole dream in your head. Oh, yeah, play out the whole thing
And here's the thing it was it was bad with me for myself
I didn't go to other people saying like hey you do the you know, I just like you do the rest
That was a violation you woke up in the morning how to do the walk of shame back to your computer to see what your go daddy bill was
You're right. That's the funny thing. You're 100 right when you're like, what did I do last night?
I'm so dumb like looking at these things like what was I thinking? I think
But the what made it bad for me
Is when I drink I'd be like wait a second
I could do I could literally pull this off this little idea that I have like I know how to make websites
I don't want to make video. I know I used to go through the line of assets that you bring to the whole project
Yeah, and then you do it and you're like proud no one's gonna your cash
You're all but cash and checks like all but checking into the academy awards for your movies. It's true url
True. All right. So there is a url that has proved out to be pretty valuable. It's called jocofuel.com
Which is one that you know what I just kind of grabbed
Right as the whole idea came to fruition
You want to hear something really you might already know this but try go on go daddy or wherever and go look for urls
containing jocos something like something real like I don't know jocomicrophones or a jocobottle or I don't know something
You'll find that a lot of them are taken. Yeah. Yeah, that's brah. That's those people bro
Thank you to get jocco.com
That was freaking awesome
He totally hooked me up great guy great guy hooked me up with that
I sold it to me for one dollar jocco.com. It's legit. So
Appreciate it. All right. All right. So jocofuel.com originusa.com another url had to pay for that one had to pay some real money for that one
Yeah, anything for url USA.com
That was a bummer, but we got it and now you can go and get american made geese boots jeans
T-shirts hoodies
Rash guards
I just got another pair of jeans by the way, no big deal. What what Delta 68?
But which one's different wash the middle middle middle wash the wash. That's two pairs for me by the way
You're in there. All right originusa a bunch of cool stuff jocostore.com. Yep. It's true
So you can get your apparel you know represent on the path discipline equals freedom standard issue dave berg representing the marine core colors
I dig it
Actually, I don't think I've ever revealed that you just did what the color schemes are for but nonetheless
It's true. It's absolutely true dave berg represent, but yeah, I'm gonna represent on the path discipline goes for you
I'm good
Stand by to get to all this stuff
Jocostore.com. We have the short locker on there too. It's a subscription
Scenario where you get a new shirt cool designs on that a lot of people like that one
So check those out if you like that one subscribe for that one. It's a good one
Subscribe to jocco underground too. We had a little extra podcast. We're answering questions. We're doing
We're covering topics that are
There that are adjacent to what we talk about on this podcast. They're contemplative
They're contemplative. They're adjacent a very life focused right sort of following the category of how can I be a better human?
Yeah, I'd say that's right and then we answer a bunch of questions from everybody. So so uh jocco underground.com
You know what I found about your topics is they if you can like grasp these topics and keep them in mind
And for real keep them in mind you will avoid so many of the pitfalls in life
Well, yeah, and you know what I've noticed about your topics
So here we go. Well, I think we're on we're think we're on the something like the
65 65 70 something like this that we've done. I think four topics have been yours
Of the weekly list that you send me of potential topics. I'm on the grid
I might have one of our topics might be topics that echo has suggested. Yeah, we could just get a kick
We cover that we cover echoes url. So good. That would be another good one
I'm just going through the list. We could cover my dumb urls too. We can just get dumb urls out here
That's a good idea actually
so uh check that's
The jocco underground if you want to subscribe to that we do that other podcast youtube subscribe to that psychological warfare
flipsidecanvas.com a bunch of books
You know where to get them
You can get them at jockelpulishing.com. You can go to amazon.com. I mean
Only only cry for the living by holly mckay. We reprinted some of those grab grab that book. It's a fantastic book
Ashland front where we have a leadership consultancy. Dave and I
Echo is not on the leadership consultancy. Yes, I am. Well, you are from you're the CMO official. It's all good
But you don't interact with clients
No, I don't we and you know what surprisingly we haven't had or we had a request for echo to come
Then no look at bro. Uh, I know factually that that I I guess you guys and this time I found this out
This happened one time by the way probably out of about one million inquiries, but whatever
So I guess what when you sign up to the ask for or to
Request an instructor. Yeah, and it's like a hierarchy, right your first first choice second choice or something like that
I guess I was the second choice in one of them
No
Yeah, did you do it?
No, bro. It was no. Jamie told me like laughing like that's nice of jayme. I would bank
I would literally bankrupt your whole company with my advice
Check but Dave and I and a bunch of other people laif
Uh jp jayme
Jason steve meg. We got a bunch of people
Who don't miss kori?
Um, anyways, we have a leadership company ash on front.com. This is what we do. We teach leadership
All the problems that you have inside your organization are leadership problems and we fix them
If you want to improve yourself on an individual basis, you can go to extreme ownership.com
Where we teach these principles principles of leadership principles of life
extreme ownership.com
And if you want to help service members active retiree want to help gold star families
Check out marclise mom. Mom only she's got a charity organization
If you want to donate you want to get involved go to americasmightywarriors.org
And also check out what mike of think is doing up in
Up in montana heroes and horses.org doing stuff for vets
And if you want to connect with us, Dave is at david arberg
Echo is at ecu trials. I am at jockewell. We're on the social media things
Re-engaged with twitter, you know twitter is a little wild right now some wildness going on. It's kind of fun
Yeah, so we're there. We're on the gram, but just watch out for the algorithm on all these things. You got to be careful
um
Thanks for listening and thanks to all of our military personnel out there
Standing to watch around the world keeping us safe same goes for a police law enforcement firefighters paramedics emt's dispatchers correctional officers
Border patrol secret service all first responders you all also out there standing to watch here at home keeping us safe. Thank you
Thank you
When everyone else out there, let's just remember that little piece that omar bradley said about
About circumstances and character
And circumstances mold our character
But different people
With different character react differently to different circumstances from the exact same circumstances
One man might build a palace
Well another man's gonna have difficulty building a lean to a palace versus lean to this is factual
This is factual
some men women go through life
They build a palace
And some men and women go through life. They build a lean to
We've all seen it we control our own destiny
So let's get out there and get after it and until next time this is dave and echo and jaco
Out